<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Introduction</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="players-manual-introduction" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Introduction</h2>
			<p><strong>Critters, Caverns, and Catacombs</strong> is, first and foremost, a <em>role-playing</em> game, that is a game where you and your friends pretend to be characters in stories you make together.</p>
			<blockquote class="designer-notes">
				<p>
					<strong>Objectives:</strong>
				</p>
				<p>For those who know what a role-playing game is, your first question might actually be why did I do this? I’m glad you asked.</p>
				<p>I was atteming, much like the old school renaissance, to capture back some of the things that I enjoyed in a role-playing game. It’s just that what I miss isn’t being captured by the current crop of OSR games.</p>
				<p>In my case I liking my role playing games to be crunchy. I am unashamed to admit that I am into gamism, which meant that when the inspiration for the OSR games were the norm I was a little left out.</p>
				<p>I remember many years ago discussing with a friend that I wasn’t completely happy with the role-playing game that I was most familiar with and felt like I knew enough I could make my own.</p>
				<p>Those ideas have continued to be thought through, fleshed out, and tested.</p>
				<p>For this initial release you will see these designer notes spread around to make sure that I don’t just say what but also say why.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>At least one person will have to take on the responsibility of being the game moderator⁠—but you can find out more about that in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Game Moderator’s Guide</i>.</p>
			<p>The rest of you will need to either find or create a heroic character ready for adventure, and then get ready to breathe life into that character.</p>
			<section id="what-does-a-game-look-like" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">What Does a Game Look Like?</h3>
				<blockquote class="designer-notes">
					<p>
						<strong>Alternative Audiences</strong>
					</p>
					<p>In a later release I also want to have a game that can look much more like a traditional board game. Open the board, set out the tokens, and move them around. I definitely hint at that here, but full support for the board-game player is coming later.</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>First, the moderator describes what is happening, or what your characters can see. They may even lay out a game board, draw lines on it, and place tokens or minuatures to help you visualize it.</p>
				<p>Some of what happens depends a bit on the people you play with. Some groups prefer “theatre of the mind” and some like a very “tactical” approach, and some move back and forth. Just make sure all of your are having fun!</p>
				<p>After the scenario is set up, the moderator will ask each player what their character is doing. This can be anything, but many things you want your character to do will require dice rolls to determine how well they succeed or fail. If you say “I want to move up and see what’s around the corner”, then no die roll will be required. If you say “I want to sneak a peek around the corner”, then a die roll will be required to see how well you keep quiet and stay hidden as you try to see what is there.</p>
				<p>If your group is more tactical, then you may move your token up past the corner and not have to roll a die; or you may move your token up to the corner and say “I want to peek around the corner”.</p>
				<p>How do you know if you need to roll a die or not? The moderator will either say “Okay” or “roll a sneak check”.</p>
				<p>You will then roll a twenty sided die (called a <em>d20</em>), add your character’s sneak skill, and report the result.</p>
				<p>Your moderator may have to roll a twenty sided die as well to see how well the non-player characters (which are controlled by the moderator) are likely to see you.</p>
				<p>After all of that, the moderator will tell you the result of your action and move on to the next player⁠—though the non-player characters may have a turn as well.</p>
				<p>Then turns continue until you are done for the day or the adventure has been completed.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="is-that-all" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Is That All?</h3>
				<p>Almost.</p>
				<p>Some of your actions will earn your character treasure and experience. With more treasure your character can have better equipment, and face more heroic dangers. With more experience your character can have better skills, and face more heroic dangers.</p>
				<p>Over several gaming sessions your character will grow, develop, and may even change as you get used to the role you want to play.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="what-else-do-i-need" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">What Else Do I Need?</h3>
				<p>One of your friends to volunteer as moderator, paper, a place to play, and several dice.</p>
				<p>
					<strong>Moderator:</strong>
				</p>
				<p>One person needs to serve as moderator or referee for the game. The moderator sets up the scenario, decides what the non-player characters are doing, and makes sure everyone gets a turn.</p>
				<p>Only one moderator is needed, but several different adventures can be used by a group at the same time and your group could take turns.</p>
				<p>
					<strong>Paper:</strong>
				</p>
				<p>You will need some way to keep track of how capable your character is, and what damage they may have suffered. This can be as simple as a piece of paper and a pencil, an electronic document, or even a separate program to help keep track. You just need something that will help you keep track of your character during the adventure.</p>
				<p>
					<strong>Location:</strong>
				</p>
				<p>You need some location be be together. There is nothing wrong with this being a virtual location. There might even been tools to help your group with that, but you can get by with a group chat and a shared document when you have the right group of friends.</p>
				<p>
					<strong>Dice:</strong>
				</p>
				<p>You will need a collection of dice in various shapes.</p>
				<p>Whenever these rules talk about needing a die roll, there will be a notation along the lines of “3d6+4”.</p>
				<blockquote class="designer-notes">
					<p>
						<strong>Too Many Dice?</strong>
					</p>
					<p>When I have both polyhedral and d6 versions the d6 notation will just say “3d+4” so you will know which set of rules you are looking at.</p>
					<p>And it <em>is</em>important that you know which set of rules you are looking at because that affects the percentage chance of success.</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>The number before the “d” is how many dice to roll, though if it is missing it means to roll one die. The number after the “d” is the type of die to roll. The “+” or “⁠–⁠” between the numbers tells you how much to add or subtract from a roll, and if it is left off then you add or subtract zero. So “3d6+4” means to roll three dice wich six sides, sum them and add four.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="types-of-dice" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Types of Dice</h3>
				<p>A <em>d4</em> is a die that is a pyramid, though the most famous pyramids actually have five sides. This die is different from almost all other dice because you determine its value by looking at the numbers by the point that is pointing up instead of looking at the number on a face.</p>
				<p>A <em>d6</em> is a die that looks like a cube. This is what most people mean when they say “die”.</p>
				<p>A <em>d8</em> is a die that looks like two pyramids stuck together⁠—in this case the pyramids that have five sides.</p>
				<p>A <em>d10</em> is a die that also looks like two pyramids stuck together⁠—though these pyramids have too many sides.</p>
				<p>A <em>d12</em> is a die that looks reminiscent of a ball from association football, also called soccer.</p>
				<p>A <em>d20</em> is a biggest die, but the one we use most often.</p>
				<p>A <em>d%</em> or <em>d100</em> is a special case to get a value between 1 and 100.</p>
				<p>There are actualy d% you can purchase, which look like a golf ball. Feel free to use those if you want.</p>
				<p>The most common way to roll a d% is to roll two differently colored d10s. Decide before you roll which is the tens and which is the ones. Then read them as digits instead of adding them together. So a 5 and a 6 is 56 and not 11. This will give you a number between 00 and 99, but we treat 00 as 100.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-core-mechanic" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Core Mechanic</h3>
				<p>One reason that I claim the d20 is the most used is because it is part of the core mechanic.</p>
				<p>Let’s go back to that example of trying to peek around the corner and not be seen.</p>
				<p>It could be the hide skill, so as to remain hidden; or it could be the sneak skill, so as to not be heard. The game moderator is the one that decides whether you need to remain hidden or keep quiet, but we said above that it was the sneak skill.</p>
				<p>So you would roll a d20 and add the number next to the sneak skill on your character sheet and say that number out loud.</p>
				<p>The game moderator may inform you that there is a particular disadvantage or advantage to the situation. Perhaps the corridor you are in is normally silent and the people or creatures you want to sneak a look at already know you are there which would give you a disadvantage. Perhaps you are trying to sneak a peek around the corner of a wet cave with lots of noise which would give you an advantage.</p>
				<p>If you have disadvantage you subtract 5 points from your roll, if you have advantage then you add 5 points.</p>
				<p>Your sneak skill result is compared to the perceive result of the other creature.</p>
				<p>In the case of the sneak (or hide) skill, you will be comparing your result to some other creatures attempt to perceive you, but many skills aren’t against others.</p>
				<p>A skill like climb will instead have a target number you are trying to reach which lets you climb 5 feet. If you that number or better, then you succeed and can climb five feet. If you get much more that that number then you receive a boon and can climb ten (or fifteen) feet. If you miss that number by a small amount, then you don’t move, and if you miss by a large amount then you fall.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="next-steps" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Next Steps</h3>
				<p>Your next steps are:</p>
				<ol>
					<li>
						<p>find a friend to be the moderator;</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>allow them time to pick or make an adventure;</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>choose or make a character (see the next chapter);</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>find a time to get together;</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>start playing.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
