<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Uncopyright</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/se.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter">
		<section id="uncopyright" epub:type="copyright-page">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Uncopyright</h2>
			<p>Copyright pages exist to tell you <em>can’t</em> do something. Unlike them, this Uncopyright page exists to tell you what you can do. The cover is believed to be in the United States public domain; that is, they are believed to be free of copyright restrictions in the United States. The United States public domain represents our collective cultural heritage, and items in it are free for anyone in the United States to do almost anything at all with, without having to get permission.</p>
			<p>Copyright laws are different all over the world, and the cover art in this ebook may still be copyrighted in other countries. If you’re not located in the United States, you must check your local laws before using this ebook. Standard Ebooks makes no representations regarding the copyright status of the source text or artwork in this ebook in any country other than the United States.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>This is a human-readable summary of (and not a substitute for) the <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode">license</a>.</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>Disclaimer</p>
				<p>This summary highlights only some of the key features and terms of the actual license. It is not a license and has no legal value. You should carefully review all of the terms and conditions of the actual license before using the licensed material.</p>
				<p>This does not constitute legal advice.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>
				<strong>You are free to:</strong>
			</p>
			<p><strong>Share</strong> — copy and redistubet the material in any medium or format.</p>
			<p><strong>Adapt</strong> — remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose, exven commerically.</p>
			<p>The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you follow the license terms.</p>
			<p>
				<strong>Under the following terms:</strong>
			</p>
			<p><strong>Attribution</strong> — you must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the licens, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.</p>
			<p><strong>No additional restrictions</strong> — you may not apply legal terms or technological measures that legally restrict others from doing anything the license permits.</p>
			<p>
				<strong>Notices:</strong>
			</p>
			<p>You do not have to comply with the license for elements of the material in the public domain or where your use is permitted by an applicable exception or limitation.</p>
			<p>No warranties are given. The license may not give you all of the permissions necessary for your intended use. For example, other rights such as publicity, privacy, or moral rights may limit how you use the material.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
